In this chapter we are going to talk about another machine learning related algorithm the so called
K nearest neighbor classifier.
So this K nearest neighbor or K and then a classifier can classify examples by assigning them the class
of the most similar labeled examples.
Ok so it is a very very simple.
But on the other hand extremely powerful algorithm we will see that when we are talking about machine
learning algorithms in finance these K nearest neighbor classifier is the best one possible.
So it outperforms support rector machines.
It outperforms a random forest classifier and so on.
So it is a very very simple but extremely Parver approach and is Vail's suited for classification tasks.
They are the relationship between the features are quite complex and hard to understand.
Again it is a supervised learning algorithm which means that there is a training data set with examples
that are classified into several categories.
In the previous chapter we have been talking about logistic regression and we have come to the conclusion
that it is for binary classification.
So when there are two outcomes zero or one for example the email is spam or not the client is Hathi
or not.
Here we came nearest neighbor classifier.
There can be several output classes.
Ok so thats why we say that these examples are classified into several output classes.
And if we have a new example with the same number of features as the training data this KNM algorithm
identifies Caye items in the training data set that are the nearest similarity and the only test example
is assigned to the class of the majority of the K nearest neighbors.
So basically the scale and an algorithm is going to analyze the credit risk data that it is going to
search for the most similar entities.
So where age low end income is very very similar to the actual test sample.
And basically it is going to track the output in the training example as far as the most similar items
are concern.
And according to this information it is going to decide whether the client will default or not.
So what were very important that came nearest neighbor classifier is looking for the most similar items
in order to make the final decision.
OK so for example we have several ingredients such as Apple bacon banana carrot and cheese which two
features sweetness and crunchiness of course machine learning algorithms can deal with numerical values
exclusively.
So somehow we have to transform these sweetness and crunchiness feature parameters into numerical values.
OK so as far as these parameters are concerned we are going to use integers within the range one up
to 10.
And this is what we are going to assign to these ingredients.
For example Apple is quite sweet.
Thats why the sweetness meter will be tan.
It is quite crunchy.
So thats why the crunchiness parameter will be 9.
But as far as cheese is concerned it is not that sweet so thats why the sweetness paramita is wanted
and it is not crunchy at all.
So thats why the crunchiness barometer is worn as well.
And these are the labels accordingly.
So if the sweetest paramita is Dan the crunchiness or a meter is nine.
It is the apple.
The type of this entity is fruit.
So as you can see we have several output classes fruits proteins vegetables.
So in this case there are three output clauses and the and I them is going to analyze this data set
and we are able to make new predictions that if we have a tomato with sweetness paramita or six and
crunchiness barometer for what's going to be the type of this given entity.
So this is what we are after all.
We are able to plot these ingredients on a two dimensional plane because we have two features sweetness
and the crunchiness that's why there's going to be the x axes as sweetness and or y axes as crunchiness.
So we have several output clauses.
This is what we have been discussing that these are the labels.
Basically we have fruits.
We have proteins and we have vegetables.
These are the vegetables.
These are the fruit.
And these are the proteins.
OK.
I know cheese is not a protein.
But anyways it is just for demonstration purposes.
OK and what's the aim of the algorithm that if we have a new sample of such as tomato we did sweetness
and crunchiness parameters we should be able to classify this new sample better.
It is a fruit whether it is vegetable or it is a protein.
So basically what we need to construct is a so called a distance function to be able to classify the
new data.
So how are we able to measure the distance between the new entity and all the other items in the data
set.
For example we have both Euclidean distances.
So this is what we are going to talk about in the next lecture.
Thanks for watching.